so i'm going to show you how to make the
perfect risotto so it's really creamy
but
slightly al dente in the middle of the
rice so to start with we're going to
um sweat some onions down these have
been on quite a low heat
so they're really nice and soft once
they're looking soft and you could have
squished them with a spoon
you're ready to turn your heat up and
add the rice
so i've got my risotto rice here stir
that in
and what we want to do is coat the rice
coat all the grains of the rice in the
oil that's in the pan
and the rice will start to sort of
squeak at you when it's ready
so i'm listening for it i want it to
look slightly translucent around the
edges
let's probably take a couple of minutes
i can hear it now i'm going to add my
wine into the pan
so most risottos have wine in the recipe
you're going to splash this in it should
sizzle up quite quickly
let go and we're going to give this a
stir and let this reduce
i'm going to turn my heat up a little
bit you want it to bubble away quite
quickly
here we go now when all almost all the
wine has disappeared
we're going to start adding the stock to
the pan and this is a gradual process
you need to add one layer left a time
so that it absorbs quite slowly and
gently and the total process takes about
20 minutes
so turn my heat down a little bit again
you don't want it too hot otherwise the
stock evaporates too quickly and doesn't
go into the rice
my stock is hot i'm going to add one
ladle full
here we go and it's important that your
stock's hot
exact speed up the cooking and helps the
rice to absorb the liquid
so what we're going to do is just wait
stirring all the time for the rice to
absorb the liquid and in the end it'll
become really beautifully creamy as i've
got in my pan here
you can see now the bubble's starting to
rise once
all this liquid has more or less
disappeared you're ready to add the next
ladle full of stock
okay so it's starting to thicken
and i can see the starch is coming out
of the grains of rice
which is making it look a little bit
cloudy i hope you can see that
so when that's gone a little bit thicker
and a little bit more stock
has evaporated i'd add another ladle
full and keep going until the stock has
been used up
so then we're left with a gorgeous
creamy risotto and to this now it's
still warm i'm going to add
my finishing flavors and i'm going to
add some butter some fresh herbs and
parmesan
so in goes some butter
like so i'll give that a stir
so that it melts in
i'm going to add some fresh parmesan i'm
going to save a little of that to
decorate the plate
at the end and also some chopped parsley
but you can have whatever you like
give that a good stir around
and you're ready to serve get rid of my
wooden spoon
there you have a lovely
creamy herbie risotto
it's perfect as a quick supper finish
with a little cheese
and you're done
you